README.md, before:

# SAPjs

A minimal user interface for the OpenBEM SAP model using Vue.js

![SAPjs.png](SAPjs.png)

### Online tool

SAPjs is installed on the OpenEnergyMonitor server for public use here:

**https://openenergymonitor.org/sapjs/**

Save and open projects to your computer locally. Data is not stored on the OpenEnergyMonitor server, all calculations happen in your computer browser.
The OpenEnergyMonitor server is only used to initially load the tool.

### Assessment example

[https://trystanlea.org.uk/energyassessment](https://trystanlea.org.uk/energyassessment)

### Self host or install locally

1\. Clone this repository into your public_html folder (assuming installed apache2 server):

    git clone https://github.com/TrystanLea/SAPjs
    
2\. Clone my fork of the OpenBEM SAP model inside the SAPjs directory:

    cd SAPjs
    git clone https://github.com/TrystanLea/openBEM
    
 3\. Thats it, open in browser via e.g: http://localhost/SAPjs

### Background

This tool builds on previous work on a similar tool called [MyHomeEnergyPlanner](https://github.com/emoncms/MyHomeEnergyPlanner), which started as a collaboration between OpenEnergyMonitor and CarbonCoop, both share the same core SAP model ([OpenBEM](https://github.com/trystanlea/Openbem)). This tool is just a new user interface that focuses on input flexibility as well as pairing things right down to the basics. It does not include features such as measures, libraries and reporting included in the original tool. It is aimed at the enthusiast householder who wants to do their own calculations and dig into the detail a bit more. To date this new user interface has been a personal project and while the tool is hosted at OpenEnergyMonitor I make no guarantees of ongoing support or regular development. It does the job for me and Im happy with it, I hope you enjoy! If you would like to adapt or contribute back to this project please see the contributing section below. Cheers!

Credit in particular to Carbon Coop: Marianne Heaslip, Carlos Alonso-Gabizon, Anna Sidwell and Jonathan Atkinson for their support and development of the original MyHomeEnergyPlanner tool and work on the OpenBEM SAP model on which this user interface builds. 

Carbon Coop are continuing with development of a port of MyHomeEnergyPlanner using Python/Django, renamed Macquette and branded Home Retrofit Planner. Rather than purely an energy assessment tool, Home Retrofit Planner is a much more extensive software application looking at home retrofit in a wholistic way, including all the considerations around measured applied, PAS2035 etc. If this sounds like what you are after, the source code and documentation for Macquette is available here [https://gitlab.com/carboncoop/macquette/](https://gitlab.com/carboncoop/macquette/).
    
### Contributing 

Feel free to fork this project and adapt to your own requirements, the work is licenced under GPL Affero V3. 

If you would like to contribute back to the project please get in contact via the github issues to introduce yourself and discuss proposed changes before creating a pull request, that's if they are more than fixing typos and very small errors :)

A key goal for this project is to keep things simple and focus on input flexibility for the enthusiast user.

The following contributing guide for normalize css is a great overview of how to contribute to an open source project and how to use git to create pull requests among other things.

https://github.com/necolas/normalize.css/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md

Commit message:

mqtt interface for overwritting, appending and clearing elements through a JSON interface

README.md, after:

# SAPjs

A minimal user interface for the OpenBEM SAP model using Vue.js

![SAPjs.png](SAPjs.png)

### Online tool

SAPjs is installed on the OpenEnergyMonitor server for public use here:

**https://openenergymonitor.org/sapjs/**

Save and open projects to your computer locally. Data is not stored on the OpenEnergyMonitor server, all calculations happen in your computer browser.
The OpenEnergyMonitor server is only used to initially load the tool.

### Assessment example

[https://trystanlea.org.uk/energyassessment](https://trystanlea.org.uk/energyassessment)

### Self host or install locally

1\. Clone this repository into your public_html folder (assuming installed apache2 server):

    git clone https://github.com/TrystanLea/SAPjs
    
2\. Clone my fork of the OpenBEM SAP model inside the SAPjs directory:

    cd SAPjs
    git clone https://github.com/TrystanLea/openBEM
    
 3\. Thats it, open in browser via e.g: http://localhost/SAPjs 

 4\. You can also run a local server to http://localhost:9000 using the python command:

    python -m http.server 9000

### MQTT interface

It is possible to enable values to be poked in externally via MQTT through the given 
host, port and topic.  Click the MQTT button down and try out the direct commands:

> mosquitto_pub -h mosquitto.doesliverpool.xyz -t "sapjs/vr1/json" -m '{"id":"D2", "lib":"Stone wall", "l":10, "h":120 }'
> mosquitto_pub -h mosquitto.doesliverpool.xyz -t "sapjs/vr1/json" -m '{"clear":"elements"}'


### Background

This tool builds on previous work on a similar tool called [MyHomeEnergyPlanner](https://github.com/emoncms/MyHomeEnergyPlanner), which started as a collaboration between OpenEnergyMonitor and CarbonCoop, both share the same core SAP model ([OpenBEM](https://github.com/trystanlea/Openbem)). This tool is just a new user interface that focuses on input flexibility as well as pairing things right down to the basics. It does not include features such as measures, libraries and reporting included in the original tool. It is aimed at the enthusiast householder who wants to do their own calculations and dig into the detail a bit more. To date this new user interface has been a personal project and while the tool is hosted at OpenEnergyMonitor I make no guarantees of ongoing support or regular development. It does the job for me and Im happy with it, I hope you enjoy! If you would like to adapt or contribute back to this project please see the contributing section below. Cheers!

Credit in particular to Carbon Coop: Marianne Heaslip, Carlos Alonso-Gabizon, Anna Sidwell and Jonathan Atkinson for their support and development of the original MyHomeEnergyPlanner tool and work on the OpenBEM SAP model on which this user interface builds. 

Carbon Coop are continuing with development of a port of MyHomeEnergyPlanner using Python/Django, renamed Macquette and branded Home Retrofit Planner. Rather than purely an energy assessment tool, Home Retrofit Planner is a much more extensive software application looking at home retrofit in a wholistic way, including all the considerations around measured applied, PAS2035 etc. If this sounds like what you are after, the source code and documentation for Macquette is available here [https://gitlab.com/carboncoop/macquette/](https://gitlab.com/carboncoop/macquette/).
    
### Contributing 

Feel free to fork this project and adapt to your own requirements, the work is licenced under GPL Affero V3. 

If you would like to contribute back to the project please get in contact via the github issues to introduce yourself and discuss proposed changes before creating a pull request, that's if they are more than fixing typos and very small errors :)

A key goal for this project is to keep things simple and focus on input flexibility for the enthusiast user.

The following contributing guide for normalize css is a great overview of how to contribute to an open source project and how to use git to create pull requests among other things.

https://github.com/necolas/normalize.css/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md
